Programming language
====================
Diagram: java1.1

A language which is used to communicate between user and computer is called programming language.

Programming language acts like a mediator or interface between user and computer.

We have two types of programming language.

1) Low Level Language

2) High Level Language

1) Low Level Language
----------------------
A language which understand by a computer easily is called low level language.

A language which is computer dependent is called low level language.

ex:
	Machine language
	Assembly language 


Machine language
----------------
It is a fundamental language of a computer which is combination of 0's and 1's.

It is also known as binary language.

A computer may understands many languages.But to understand machine language it does not required any translator.

Advantages:

1) A program writtens in machine language consumes less memory.

2) It does not required any translator.

3) It is more efficient when compare to other languages.

Disadvantages:

1) It is a burdun on a programmer to remember dozen's of binary code.

2) If anywhere error raised in our program then locating and handling that eror becomes difficult.

3) Modification can't be done easily.


Assembly language
-----------------
The second generation language came into an existence is called assembly language.

Assembly language is a replacement of symbols and letters for mathematical programming code.

Assembly language is also known as symbolic logic.

Assembly language can't understand by a computer directly.We required translator.

We have three types of translators.

1) Assembler

2) Compiler 

3) Interpreter 

1) Assembler
-------------
It is one of the translator which converts assemblic code to machine code. 

Merits: 

1) If anywhere error raised in our program then locating and handling that error becomes easy.

2) Modifications can be done easily.


Demerits:

1) It is a mind trick to remember all symbolic code.

2) It requires translator. 

3) It is less efficient when compare to machine language.

Q)What is Debugging?

Bugs are also known as Errors.

The process of eliminating the bugs from the application is called debugging.


2) High Level Language
----------------------
A language which understand by a user easily is called high level language.

A language which is user dependent is called high level language.

ex:
	Java, .Net, Python, Perl and etc.

High level language can't understand by a computer directly.We required translators.

compiler
--------
	It will compile and execute our program at a time.

interpreter 
-----------
	It will execute our program line by line procedure.

Advantages:

1) It is easy to learn and easy to use because it is similar to english language.

2) Debugging can be done easily.

3) Modifications can done easily.

Disadvantages:

1) A program writtens in high level language consumes huge amount of memory.

2) It requires translator

3) It is not efficient when compare to low level language.







































